# A Journey of a Thousand Miles. . .

here's a good video i found on youtube,

<div class="video">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/C8wgbkVVgSo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

our body is made up of various tissues, every tissues have their own properties, each tissue is made up of organic cells, every cells have their own properties, each cell is made up of various structures (or components) known as organelles, every cell has at least one such structure called nucleus, a Genome is in these nu

# Q. Where in The Genome Does DNA Replication Begin?

before a cell divides in two, it must first replicate its genome so that each of its daughter inherits the same copy.

# Q. if a genome has a single ori (the DNA string - string of nucleotides from {A,T,C,G}), find its ori location.

let's find an ori of circular chromosomes, they're typically hundred nucleotides long.

let's take an example in which we already know the ori, analyze it and build a general method to find the same in any other bacteria.

[ori](../../data/oriofVibrioCholerae.txt) of the pathogenic bacterium that causes cholera.

how does the cell know to begin replication exactly in this ori region? which is just a tiny part of the whole large chromosome? there must be some hidden message in the ori which orders cell to begin replication from this region, right?

we know that replication is mediated by DnaA protein which binds to a tiny segment within the ori (DnaA box). so perhaps DnaA Box is that secret hidden message within DNA seq which calls DnaA protein to bind with it!

how to find this DnaA Box? without knowig how it looks like?

# Q. find a hidden message in string that represents ori of a genome. (is this a computational prob?)

USE YOUR STATISTICAL ANALYSIS KNOWLEDGE!

DEF: k-mer is a substring of len k of a larger string.

# Q. Compute how many times a given k-mer appears in a given string?


```
def kmerCount(Text, Pattern):
    count = 0
    for i in range(len(Text)-len(Pattern)+1):
        if Text[i:i+len(Pattern)] == Pattern:
            count = count+1
    return count
```
